chore(manage): adds configuration guide for postgresql support (#2040)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/manage/administrator-guide/configuration/relational-database.mdx

---
date: 2025-10-07
id: relational-database
title: Configuring SigNoz to Use Relational Databases
description: Learn how to configure SigNoz to use Relational Databases
---

SigNoz ships with SQLite by default for quick setups. For production and larger deployments, you can configure SigNoz to use a relational database. 

> Refer to the [GitHub Issue #7316](https://github.com/SigNoz/signoz/issues/7316) for the latest information on supported databases.

Reviewer: Remove this. We will close that issue soon.

Author: Any master ticket that we can mention?

<Admonition type="info">

> SigNoz uses a relational database or SQLite exclusively for storing metadata and control-plane information, such as organizations, users, dashboards, and configurations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SigNoz uses a relational database like SQLite, Postgres exclusively for storing metadata and control-plane information, such as organizations, users, dashboards, and configurations. 
```

**It does not replace ClickHouse, which remains necessary for storing and querying all observability telemetry data  (traces, metrics, and logs).**
</Admonition>

## Configuration

Set the `SIGNOZ_SQLSTORE_PROVIDER` environment variable to select the database backend. See [configuration options](/docs/operate/configuration#environment-variables) for details.

### PostgreSQL

To use PostgreSQL, set the following environment variables on the `signoz` service:

```bash
SIGNOZ_SQLSTORE_PROVIDER: postgres
SIGNOZ_SQLSTORE_POSTGRES_DSN: postgres://signoz:your_password@postgres:5432/signoz?sslmode=disable
```

> - On first startup with PostgreSQL, SigNoz runs automatic schema migrations. This may take some time depending on database size and latency.

Reviewer: No need to mention this.
